A Most Uncomfortable Day at the Seaside

a story by Claude about swimsuits, constipation, high school, sand, and self-consciousness

It is a truth universally acknowledged that a young lady in possession of a new bathing costume must be in want of a seaside holiday. Such was the unfortunate circumstance in which Miss Amelia Thornton, a genteel young woman of seventeen, found herself on a sweltering August morning. The Thornton family had journeyed from their comfortable estate in Hertfordshire to the fashionable shores of Brighton, where Mrs. Thornton insisted her daughter display the latest in bathing attire. Amelia, however, was far more concerned with a matter of utmost delicacy – namely, the distressing state of her digestive system, which had been quite upset by the long carriage ride and her mother's insistence on a diet of dry biscuits and weak tea throughout their journey.

As the Thornton carriage pulled up to their lodgings, a quaint cottage overlooking the bustling promenade, Amelia's sense of dread intensified. Her mother, a woman of fashion and little sense, had already begun extolling the virtues of sea bathing and the curative properties of salt water.

"My dear Amelia," Mrs. Thornton chirped, "you simply must try on your new bathing costume at once. I daresay it will be the envy of all the young ladies on the beach."

Amelia, her complexion rivaling the paleness of the chalk cliffs, managed a weak smile. "Perhaps, Mama, I might rest for a moment before such exertions? The journey has left me rather fatigued."

But Mrs. Thornton would not be deterred. With the efficiency of a general marshaling troops, she ushered her daughter into the cottage and up to her room, where the dreaded bathing costume lay in wait.

Amelia gazed upon the garment with a mixture of horror and fascination. The costume, made of a sturdy navy-blue fabric, was far more revealing than anything she had ever worn in public. Its short sleeves and knee-length skirt seemed positively scandalous to her sensibilities.

"Come now, my dear," her mother urged, "let us see how it becomes you."

With great reluctance, Amelia donned the costume, her cheeks burning with embarrassment as she caught sight of herself in the looking glass. She could not help but think that she resembled nothing so much as a lumpy pudding stuffed into a tea cozy.

As Amelia descended the stairs, wrapped in a voluminous bathing cloak, she was met with her father's bemused expression. Mr. Thornton, a man of quiet disposition and good humor, raised an eyebrow at his daughter's attire.

"Well, my dear," he said, suppressing a chuckle, "I dare say you shall make quite a splash at the seaside."

Amelia groaned inwardly at her father's attempt at levity. "Indeed, Papa. I only hope the tide will be kind enough to sweep me out to sea, where I might be spared further mortification."

The family made their way to the beach, Amelia's discomfort growing with each step. The sand, still cool in the morning air, shifted treacherously beneath her feet, exacerbating her already delicate condition. As they approached the shoreline, she spotted a group of familiar faces – several young ladies from her finishing school, accompanied by a rather dashing young gentleman.

"Oh, Amelia!" cried Miss Louisa Fairfax, waving enthusiastically. "How delightful to see you here! And in such a fetching costume, no less!"

Amelia forced a smile, painfully aware of her exposed ankles and the way the damp sea air caused her hair to frizz most unbecomingly. She glanced at the young gentleman, whose name she recalled to be Mr. Edward Hartley, and felt her cheeks flush anew as he bowed politely in her direction.

"Miss Thornton," Mr. Hartley greeted her, his eyes twinkling with amusement, "I trust you find Brighton to your liking?"

"Oh, yes," Amelia replied, desperately searching for a witty rejoinder. "It is everything one could hope for in a seaside resort – sand, salt, and sartorial distress."

The group laughed politely, and Amelia felt a momentary surge of pride at her quip. However, her triumph was short-lived as a sudden pang in her midsection reminded her of her ongoing predicament.

"Shall we venture into the water?" Miss Fairfax suggested, already shedding her cloak.

Amelia hesitated, torn between her desire to flee and the social obligation to participate. As she wavered, a particularly forceful wave crashed upon the shore, sending a spray of water over the assembled party. The shock of the cold water caused Amelia to gasp and stumble backward, losing her footing in the treacherous sand.

In a moment of sheer mortification, she found herself seated most ungracefully upon the beach, her bathing costume now adorned with a liberal coating of wet sand. To her horror, she realized that her undignified position had caused her internal discomfort to reach a critical point.

Mr. Hartley, ever the gentleman, rushed to Amelia's aid. "Miss Thornton, are you quite all right?" he asked, extending his hand to help her up.

Amelia, her face a perfect portrait of embarrassment, managed to stammer, "I... I believe I must retire to my lodgings at once. I fear the sea air does not agree with me."

With a strength born of desperation, she scrambled to her feet, pointedly ignoring Mr. Hartley's outstretched hand. She turned to her mother, who was watching the scene with a mixture of concern and disappointment.

"Mama, I beg you to excuse me. I find myself suddenly indisposed."

Without waiting for a response, Amelia gathered her cloak tightly around her and made her way across the beach with as much dignity as she could muster. As she retreated, she overheard Miss Fairfax remark, "How very singular! I do hope it is not a case of seasickness."

Amelia couldn't help but let out a rueful chuckle at the irony of the situation. If only her affliction were as simple as seasickness, she thought, her pride might have remained somewhat intact.

Upon returning to her room, Amelia found solace in both privacy and relief. As she changed out of her sandy costume, she reflected on the morning's misadventures with a mixture of mortification and amusement. She concluded that while the seaside might offer many delights, it also presented unique challenges to one's composure and digestion. With a wry smile, she penned in her journal, "It is a truth universally acknowledged that a young lady in possession of a new bathing costume must also be in want of a more accommodating constitution."